# Internal Meeting Guidelines

This document outlines core guidelines for holding internal meetings at CurioSwitch. Meetings are a 
major part of working at a development company, but are also a significant investment of time. These 
guidelines aim to provide general practices / tips to try to maximize the efficiency of meetings. 
The principles stem from the philosophy that meetings by default have negative value - to achieve 
positive value from a meeting requires maximizing its efficiency and ability to produce output.

Note that these guidelines focus on internal meetings - many challenges like scheduling, 
preparation, etc don't apply well to external meetings. However, there are still some common themes, 
and always keep an eye on achieving output. Specific guidelines for external meetings are at the
[end](#external-meetings).

Some of these guidelines have already been mentioned in the 
[Communications Guidelines](../communication).

## Before the meeting

* Google Calendar is used for scheduling all meetings. A calendar invite is enough to schedule a 
meeting without any separate messaging.

* The default meeting time at CurioSwitch is 30 minutes. Only schedule a longer meeting if you are 
confident the extra time is needed to get output. In practice, 60-min meetings usually have similar 
output to 30-min ones with 30-min of wasted time.

    * It is recommended to [change](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://blogmines.com/blog/change-the-defaut-meeting-length-in-google-calendar/&sa=D&ust=1530693147229000&usg=AFQjCNFPo93MAmdW6Jsaabbb7wcWSlqoAA) the default entry time in your calendar settings. Gear -> Settings -> Event Settings -> Default Duration

* If a member has scheduled a "no-meeting-day" for a block you are considering, avoid it if 
possible, but if you really must, make sure to contact the member directly for permission to 
schedule the meeting.

* It is good to explicitly accept meetings, but it is fine for organizers to assume "no response" as 
attending. If not able to attend a meeting, make sure to explicitly decline the invite.

    * If you feel your participation is not required for the meeting based on its context, feel free 
    to decline the invitation.

* For recurring team meetings, the guests for the meeting must be a mailing list, not individual 
members. This allows membership to change without needing to update the calendar entry.

* The *find a time* tab can be very useful for finding a slot that is available. Make sure to add 
all members and a meeting room before opening the tab so they all show up.

* For recurring meetings, the description does not need to be filled and can be very light. For 
one-off meetings, add a description that will explain what the meeting is about to invitees. Note 
that this is how the meeting is communicated to invitees, not a separate message, so it should have 
all context.

* For an All-Hands meeting or similar where the large conference room is used, the organizer(s) must 
block an additional 10 minutes of time before the meeting in Calendar for setup. An All-Hands, like 
any meeting, should start on time.

    * If you cannot set aside the time, find someone to help that can block the time.

* All meetings must have notes. For a recurring meeting, there should be a single Doc that is 
updated every meeting, while a one-off meeting should have its own Doc. The location to put the
minutes is Team Drives > All > Meeting Minutes. Add a link to the docs, either in the description or 
as an attachment, to the calendar entry.

    * In certain cases, it can be appropriate to add the one-off meeting inside a recurring 
    meeting's notes sheet. Use sense and when in doubt, create a new Doc.

    * Prepare a skeleton agenda for the meeting. For recurring meetings, it can be a day or so 
    before the meeting. For one-off, it is ideally when sending the invitation, but if not should be 
    soon after. The agenda should ideally make clear what are the discussion topics and what is the 
    desired output of the meeting (e.g., decision points, etc), but it's ok for it to be fairly 
    lightweight.

* For complicated decisions, make sure all background information has been shared beforehand and 
encourage offline discussion before the meeting. It is often a good idea to prepare a short Doc with 
background and proposals and send it 2-3 days before the meeting. Asynchronous discussion on the Doc 
before the meeting will help make sure the meeting goes smoothly.

* When any other material is used for the meeting (e.g., a Slides), it must also be linked from the 
calendar entry.

    * Keep in mind, a Doc with discussion is often the "master" for a meeting, and Slides might be 
    used to summarize it during the meeting. Slides are a poor fit for pre-meeting discussion due to 
    length restriction.

* Consider the number of members you invite - the more people that join, the higher probability that 
the meeting will end with no output. Discussions with multiple full teams should almost always be 
done offline on email / Docs with a meeting only including stakeholders.

## During the meeting

* Start the hangouts for the meeting as soon as entering the room

* Designate a notetaker, either before the meeting, or at the very beginning. The notetaker should 
find the link to the notes on the calendar, open it, and start documenting the discussion.

    * Should note any special points raised

    * Action items should have a comment with e.g., +choko@curioswitch.org entered to notify the 
    owner of an action item. After the meeting, copy any major action items to JIRA for proper 
    tracking (for very short or casual topics the Docs AI is fine). After copying to JIRA, it's fine 
    to mark the comment as resolved. Make sure to copy over all text that may have been added to the 
    comment thread.

* If discussions get off-topic, and are not productive in achieving the agenda / desired output, 
interrupt them after a reasonable amount of time (e.g., 2 min) and schedule a follow-up meeting to 
go in-depth on that topic.

    * The meeting organizer should always be keeping this in mind. Make sure the current 
    conversation is always related to achieving the agenda. Interrupting a tangential discussion is 
    good manner, not bad.

* Meetings should start on time. If a previous meeting is running into your slot, knock right away, 
and multiple times until they leave - knocking is good manner, not bad.

* Meetings should aim to end at least 2 minutes before their scheduled end. This is to allow the 
next meeting to start on time. It usually takes about 1-2 minutes for people to leave the meeting 
room. Note that it's common that a meeting with an external party must start right at the designated 
time - try to allow buffer both for the current meeting leaving and the next one entering the room.

* Leave the hangouts when ending the meeting. The TV should be showing the list of meetings when 
you're done. Do not turn off the TV.

## After the meeting

* After the meeting completes, copy the notes into an email addressed to your team's -minutes@ 
mailing list so the output is shared. It's always pleasant to get comments from someone on a totally 
different team on the shared notes :)

    * Copy-paste the content of the meeting into the email too. No need for cleanup, just a simple 
    copy-paste. Having the contents inline allows skimming through the notes within email.

## External Meetings

* External meetings must have notes too that are shared as usual (except for extra-confidential case 
like financing / hiring as usual).

* External meetings must end on time too and knocking is appropriate.

* Hangouts link should be shared to external parties and the greatest effort to avoid direct HDMI 
connection should be made. It is our duty to show modern tech / practices to external parties so 
they can get better.
